README.md, before:

# site:forge

## The Case for Proactive View Components

__site:forge__ is a static website generator centered around *proactive view
components*, that is, components that are rendered well ahead of time. By
limiting itself to that use case, site:forge can eschew much of the complexity
and framework lock-in of a [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org),
[Next.js](https://nextjs.org), or [Nuxt.js](https://nuxtjs.org). The trade-off
is that site:forge also lacks their seamless integration between server-side and
client-side execution environments. In fact, despite the view components,
site:forge's more focused and thereby leaner approach to static website
generation is closer to a [Metalsmith](https://metalsmith.io) or
[11ty](https://www.11ty.dev). Yet, site:forge dispenses with their fondness for
small-ish, often awkward, and at times obscure domain-specific languages.
Instead, it standardizes on JavaScript as the only language for expressing
business and view logic alike.

As far as users are concerned, the goal is to replace templating and styling
languages with tagged templates for verbatim content and vanilla JavaScript for
logic. That is not to argue for a free-for-all mixing business logic and view
components. Users should still follow well-established best practices and keep
those two concerns separate. Doing so should keep noticeable differences between
site:forge and template-based website generators manageable. site:forge's
approach does, however, offer one significant advantage: There is no custom code
written in some ad-hoc language and running in some subpar interpreter. It's all
modern JavaScript executing in a modern runtime environment, with all the
sophisticated performance optimizations that entails. This does assume that
users can build on (some) familiarity with programming. But that is increasingly
a requirement for any (white collar) profession. At the same time, skills honed
while writing view components for this website generator are more easily
transferable than expertise with a particular templating or styling language.

site:forge's view components also are far more lightweight than
[React.js](https://reactjs.org) or [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org). They just are
functions that take a component's properties and context as arguments and then
produce nodes belonging to site:forge's pared down, ahead-of-time [virtual
DOM](https://github.com/sethvincent/awesome-virtual-dom). That is feasible
because many of the more sophisticated features of the above frameworks are
neither necessary nor even useful when creating content well before deployment
to the server. Notably, there is no need for view reconciliation or state
management. At the same time, using a virtual DOM entails two important
benefits: First, content is syntactically well-formed by construction. Second,
content can be more easily validated. As a proof of potential, site:forge
already includes a [mechanized model](packages/html/README.md) for
HTML—capturing the rules from the
[HTML](https://html.spec.whatwg.org), [WAI-ARIA](https://w3c.github.io/aria/),
and [OpenGraph](https://ogp.me) standards.

### Project Prehistory

This project is based, in part, on experiences with two earlier and by now
discarded prototypes. But whereas tooling came first for those earlier two
attempts, the website takes precedence for this third iteration. In fact,
site:forge started out as a few ad-hoc scripts to build and deploy Apparebit. I
expect that I will alternate focus between website and website generator for the
forseeable future and thereby hope to ensure that site:forge's development
remains focused on features that are useful when building small to medium sized
websites. It also serves as a end-to-end test for the tool and its usability.


## The Packages of site:forge

In addition to the tool for generating websites itself, this repository also
includes the source code for several packages that are more generally useful.

  * __@grr/sequitur__ provides expressive and lazy sequences that may just be
    synchronous or asynchronous.
  * __@grr/multitasking__ enables concurrent, asynchronous task execution in an
    orderly and differentiated manner. While @grr/multitasking necessarily deals
    in promises, they are a secondary abstraction. The promise-producing tasks
    are far more important, not to put too fine a point to it, because they
    actually get shit done.
  * __@grr/reloader__ provides a module hook that enables hot module reloading,
    but only for modules in select directories and at select times.
  * __@grr/html__ provides a model for well-formed HTML based on HTML5,
    WAI-ARIA, and the Open Graph Protocol.
  * __@grr/proact__ implements the proactive view system, notably a template tag
    for creating virtual DOM fragments and a render function for validating and
    emitting HTML.

---

site:forge is © 2019 Robert Grimm and licensed under [MIT](LICENSE) terms.

Commit message:

Rephrase multitasking package's description to be more concise/piffy

README.md, after:

# site:forge

## The Case for Proactive View Components

__site:forge__ is a static website generator centered around *proactive view
components*, that is, components that are rendered well ahead of time. By
limiting itself to that use case, site:forge can eschew much of the complexity
and framework lock-in of a [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org),
[Next.js](https://nextjs.org), or [Nuxt.js](https://nuxtjs.org). The trade-off
is that site:forge also lacks their seamless integration between server-side and
client-side execution environments. In fact, despite the view components,
site:forge's more focused and thereby leaner approach to static website
generation is closer to a [Metalsmith](https://metalsmith.io) or
[11ty](https://www.11ty.dev). Yet, site:forge dispenses with their fondness for
small-ish, often awkward, and at times obscure domain-specific languages.
Instead, it standardizes on JavaScript as the only language for expressing
business and view logic alike.

As far as users are concerned, the goal is to replace templating and styling
languages with tagged templates for verbatim content and vanilla JavaScript for
logic. That is not to argue for a free-for-all mixing business logic and view
components. Users should still follow well-established best practices and keep
those two concerns separate. Doing so should keep noticeable differences between
site:forge and template-based website generators manageable. site:forge's
approach does, however, offer one significant advantage: There is no custom code
written in some ad-hoc language and running in some subpar interpreter. It's all
modern JavaScript executing in a modern runtime environment, with all the
sophisticated performance optimizations that entails. This does assume that
users can build on (some) familiarity with programming. But that is increasingly
a requirement for any (white collar) profession. At the same time, skills honed
while writing view components for this website generator are more easily
transferable than expertise with a particular templating or styling language.

site:forge's view components also are far more lightweight than
[React.js](https://reactjs.org) or [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org). They just are
functions that take a component's properties and context as arguments and then
produce nodes belonging to site:forge's pared down, ahead-of-time [virtual
DOM](https://github.com/sethvincent/awesome-virtual-dom). That is feasible
because many of the more sophisticated features of the above frameworks are
neither necessary nor even useful when creating content well before deployment
to the server. Notably, there is no need for view reconciliation or state
management. At the same time, using a virtual DOM entails two important
benefits: First, content is syntactically well-formed by construction. Second,
content can be more easily validated. As a proof of potential, site:forge
already includes a [mechanized model](packages/html/README.md) for
HTML—capturing the rules from the
[HTML](https://html.spec.whatwg.org), [WAI-ARIA](https://w3c.github.io/aria/),
and [OpenGraph](https://ogp.me) standards.

### Project Prehistory

This project is based, in part, on experiences with two earlier and by now
discarded prototypes. But whereas tooling came first for those earlier two
attempts, the website takes precedence for this third iteration. In fact,
site:forge started out as a few ad-hoc scripts to build and deploy Apparebit. I
expect that I will alternate focus between website and website generator for the
forseeable future and thereby hope to ensure that site:forge's development
remains focused on features that are useful when building small to medium sized
websites. It also serves as a end-to-end test for the tool and its usability.


## The Packages of site:forge

In addition to the tool for generating websites itself, this repository also
includes the source code for several packages that are more generally useful.

  * __@grr/sequitur__ provides expressive and lazy sequences that may just be
    synchronous or asynchronous.
  * __@grr/multitasking__ enables concurrent, asynchronous task execution in an
    orderly and differentiated manner. While @grr/multitasking necessarily deals
    in promises, it mostly focuses on the promise-producing tasks first. After
    all, they actually get shit done.
  * __@grr/reloader__ provides a module hook that enables hot module reloading,
    but only for modules in select directories and at select times.
  * __@grr/html__ provides a model for well-formed HTML based on HTML5,
    WAI-ARIA, and the Open Graph Protocol.
  * __@grr/proact__ implements the proactive view system, notably a template tag
    for creating virtual DOM fragments and a render function for validating and
    emitting HTML.

---

site:forge is © 2019 Robert Grimm and licensed under [MIT](LICENSE) terms.
