packages/async/README.md, before:

# @grr/async

This package enables concurrent execution of more than one asynchronous task.
Since it also enforces an upper concurrency limit, tasks may not always execute
right away but only after some delay.

## Overview

Basic usage of this package's default-exported main class is straight-forward:

```js
// Import the package.
import Executor from '@grr/async';

// Create an instance.
const runner = new Executor();

// Run some tasks.
const complete = Promise.all(
  tasks.map(([fn, ...args]) => runner.enqueue(fn, ...args))
);

// Wait for their completion.
await complete;

// Or, stop the executor.
await runner.stop();
```

## Helpers

These helper functions and class are exported by name.

##### didPoll()

Return a promise that resolves after the event loop is done polling and hence
has executed I/O event handlers, i.e., via `setImmediate()`.

```js
await didPoll();
```

##### delay(ms = 0)

Return a promise that resolves after the given delay.

##### rethrow(error)

Throw the given error again, but do so after the event loop is done polling,
i.e., via `setImmediate`.

##### newPromiseCapability(container = {})

Enrich the given container with a new promise capability, i.e., a new `promise`
and its `resolve` and `reject` settlement handlers.

##### Task(fn, receiver, ...args)

Create a new task with the given function, `this` receiver, and arguments.

##### Task.prototype.get()

Return a promise for this task's result.

##### Task.prototype.run()

Run the task and return a promise for its result. This method _synchronously_
throws an exception if it is called more than once. That violation of prudent
interface design for Node.js practices is a conscious one, i.e., designed to
bring down the process.

##### Task.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]

Return the string tag for this type, which is `@grr/async/Task`.


## Asynchronous Task Executor

##### Executor({ capacity = 8, context = {} } = {})

Create a new executor with the given `capacity`, i.e., maximum concurrency, and
`context` object. The latter provides the `this` receiver for task execution. If
a context does not have an `executor` property, the executor patches itself into
the context under that name.

### State Inspection

The internal fields of an executor can be polled with the `isIdle()`,
`isRunning()`, `isStopping()`, `hasStopped()`, `hasCapacity()`,
`hasTaskReady()`, `status()`, and `toString()` methods. An executor can also
notify applications of significant state changes with the `onIdle()` and
`onStopped()` methods, both of which return a promise that resolves when the
condition next becomes true.

##### Executor.prototype.isIdle()

Determine whether the executor is idle. An idle executor has no tasks queued up
and is not running any tasks. It becomes running after receiving some tasks to
execute via `run()`. It becomes stopped after a call to `stop()`.

##### Executor.prototype.isRunning()

Determine whether the executor is running. A running executor is executing at
least one task. It becomes idle again if the last running task completes and has
no tasks queued up. It becomes stopping after a call to `stop()`.

##### Executor.prototype.isStopping()

Determine whether the executor is stopping. A stopping executor does not accept
new tasks but allows running tasks to finish.

##### Executor.prototype.hasStopped()

Determine whether the executor is stopped. A stopped executor is done for. It
does not accept new tasks, it has not tasks queued up, and it is not executing
any tasks.

##### Executor.prototype.hasCapacity()

Determine whether the executor currently has any capacity for running another
task. That is the case if the number of running tasks is strictly smaller than
the capacity or maximum concurrency.

##### Executor.prototype.hasTaskReady()

Determine whether the executor currently has any tasks queued up that are ready
to run but have not yet been started.

##### Executor.prototype.status()

Return a record with the current status for this executor, including its
`state`, the number of tasks `ready` for execution, the number of tasks
`inflight`, the maximum `capacity`, and the number of `completed` tasks.

##### Executor.prototype.toString()

Return a string representation of the current status for this executor. This
method is the stringified version of `status()`.

##### Executor.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]

Return the string tag for this type, which is `@grr/async/Executor`.

##### Executor.prototype.onIdle()

Return a promise that resolves when the executor next becomes idle. If an
handler on the returned promise calls this method, it receives a new promise
that is resolved when the executor next _becomes_ idle, i.e., it first needs to
be running again.

##### Executor.prototype.onStop()

Return a promise that resolves when `stop()` has been invoked.

##### Executor.prototype.onDidStop()

Return a promise that resolves when the executor has stopped.


### Task Execution

The following methods actually do something useful, i.e., add tasks for
execution and stop execution altogether.

##### Executor.prototype.start(fn, receiver, ...args)

Start the given task without waiting for promises and return an object whose
`done` property is a promise for the task's result. This method is equivalent
to:

```js
start(...args) {
  return { done: this.run(...args) };
}
```

By boxing the promise for the task's result, this method ensures that an
awaiting caller does not wait until the task completes, which might be a while.
That makes this method the perfect callback for scheduling tasks, after binding
the instance of course.

##### Executor.prototype.run(fn, receiver, ...args)

Run the given task by calling the function on the effective receiver and the
given arguments and return a promise for the result. The task starts running
immediately, if there are fewer running tasks than the configured maximum.
Otherwise, it runs only after all tasks scheduled through prior invocations of
this method have started running and enough have finished running so that at
most the configured maximum minus one tasks are still running. If the given
receiver is neither `null` nor `undefined`, then that argument is the effective
receiver. Otherwise, the effective receiver is the one configured for this
executor.

##### Executor.prototype.stop()

Stop this executor. With the first call, this executor clears the task queue and
stops accepting new tasks, thanks to its new stopping state. Upon completion of
the last running task, the executor is in the terminal stopped state. This
method returns the same promise as `onStopped()`. It resolves when this executor
has stopped. In other words, stopping an executor and waiting for it to be done
is as simple as:

```js
await executor.stop();
```

---

__@grr/async__ is © 2019 Robert Grimm and licensed under [MIT](LICENSE) terms.

Commit message:

Rename Executor.prototype.start() to submit()
It captures the intent far better

packages/async/README.md, after:

# @grr/async

This package enables concurrent execution of more than one asynchronous task.
Since it also enforces an upper concurrency limit, tasks may not always execute
right away but only after some delay.

## Overview

Basic usage of this package's default-exported main class is straight-forward:

```js
// Import the package.
import Executor from '@grr/async';

// Create an instance.
const runner = new Executor();

// Run some tasks.
const complete = Promise.all(
  tasks.map(([fn, ...args]) => runner.enqueue(fn, ...args))
);

// Wait for their completion.
await complete;

// Or, stop the executor.
await runner.stop();
```

## Helpers

These helper functions and class are exported by name.

##### didPoll()

Return a promise that resolves after the event loop is done polling and hence
has executed I/O event handlers, i.e., via `setImmediate()`.

```js
await didPoll();
```

##### delay(ms = 0)

Return a promise that resolves after the given delay.

##### rethrow(error)

Throw the given error again, but do so after the event loop is done polling,
i.e., via `setImmediate`.

##### newPromiseCapability(container = {})

Enrich the given container with a new promise capability, i.e., a new `promise`
and its `resolve` and `reject` settlement handlers.

##### Task(fn, receiver, ...args)

Create a new task with the given function, `this` receiver, and arguments.

##### Task.prototype.get()

Return a promise for this task's result.

##### Task.prototype.run()

Run the task and return a promise for its result. This method _synchronously_
throws an exception if it is called more than once. That violation of prudent
interface design for Node.js practices is a conscious one, i.e., designed to
bring down the process.

##### Task.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]

Return the string tag for this type, which is `@grr/async/Task`.


## Asynchronous Task Executor

##### Executor({ capacity = 8, context = {} } = {})

Create a new executor with the given `capacity`, i.e., maximum concurrency, and
`context` object. The latter provides the `this` receiver for task execution. If
a context does not have an `executor` property, the executor patches itself into
the context under that name.

### State Inspection

The internal fields of an executor can be polled with the `isIdle()`,
`isRunning()`, `isStopping()`, `hasStopped()`, `hasCapacity()`,
`hasTaskReady()`, `status()`, and `toString()` methods. An executor can also
notify applications of significant state changes with the `onIdle()` and
`onStopped()` methods, both of which return a promise that resolves when the
condition next becomes true.

##### Executor.prototype.isIdle()

Determine whether the executor is idle. An idle executor has no tasks queued up
and is not running any tasks. It becomes running after receiving some tasks to
execute via `run()`. It becomes stopped after a call to `stop()`.

##### Executor.prototype.isRunning()

Determine whether the executor is running. A running executor is executing at
least one task. It becomes idle again if the last running task completes and has
no tasks queued up. It becomes stopping after a call to `stop()`.

##### Executor.prototype.isStopping()

Determine whether the executor is stopping. A stopping executor does not accept
new tasks but allows running tasks to finish.

##### Executor.prototype.hasStopped()

Determine whether the executor is stopped. A stopped executor is done for. It
does not accept new tasks, it has not tasks queued up, and it is not executing
any tasks.

##### Executor.prototype.hasCapacity()

Determine whether the executor currently has any capacity for running another
task. That is the case if the number of running tasks is strictly smaller than
the capacity or maximum concurrency.

##### Executor.prototype.hasTaskReady()

Determine whether the executor currently has any tasks queued up that are ready
to run but have not yet been started.

##### Executor.prototype.status()

Return a record with the current status for this executor, including its
`state`, the number of tasks `ready` for execution, the number of tasks
`inflight`, the maximum `capacity`, and the number of `completed` tasks.

##### Executor.prototype.toString()

Return a string representation of the current status for this executor. This
method is the stringified version of `status()`.

##### Executor.prototype[Symbol.toStringTag]

Return the string tag for this type, which is `@grr/async/Executor`.

##### Executor.prototype.onIdle()

Return a promise that resolves when the executor next becomes idle. If an
handler on the returned promise calls this method, it receives a new promise
that is resolved when the executor next _becomes_ idle, i.e., it first needs to
be running again.

##### Executor.prototype.onStop()

Return a promise that resolves when `stop()` has been invoked.

##### Executor.prototype.onDidStop()

Return a promise that resolves when the executor has stopped.


### Task Execution

The following methods actually do something useful, i.e., add tasks for
execution and stop execution altogether.

##### Executor.prototype.submit(fn, receiver, ...args)

Submit the given task without waiting for promises and return an object whose
`done` property is a promise for the task's result. This method is equivalent
to:

```js
submit(...args) {
  return { done: this.run(...args) };
}
```

By boxing the promise for the task's result, this method ensures that an
awaiting caller does not wait until the task completes, which might be a while.
That makes this method ideally suited for implementing a simple `spawn()`
callback that supports concurrent task execution.

##### Executor.prototype.run(fn, receiver, ...args)

Run the given task by calling the function on the effective receiver and the
given arguments and return a promise for the result. The task starts running
immediately, if there are fewer running tasks than the configured maximum.
Otherwise, it runs only after all tasks scheduled through prior invocations of
this method have started running and enough have finished running so that at
most the configured maximum minus one tasks are still running. If the given
receiver is neither `null` nor `undefined`, then that argument is the effective
receiver. Otherwise, the effective receiver is the one configured for this
executor.

##### Executor.prototype.stop()

Stop this executor. With the first call, this executor clears the task queue and
stops accepting new tasks, thanks to its new stopping state. Upon completion of
the last running task, the executor is in the terminal stopped state. This
method returns the same promise as `onStopped()`. It resolves when this executor
has stopped. In other words, stopping an executor and waiting for it to be done
is as simple as:

```js
await executor.stop();
```

---

__@grr/async__ is © 2019 Robert Grimm and licensed under [MIT](LICENSE) terms.
